InPitch 0.5.3
=============

README for InPitch 0.5.3, Copyright (C) 2006, 2016-2017, Chris Gilbreth, Hector
Parra.

See the file InPitch.java and COPYING.txt for further copyright and
contact information.

News
----

Nov. 25, 2016  v. 0.5.3

It's been a very long time since an update, but thanks to a user report about
virus scanner issues, we have made a few updates.

  1. New MIDI instruments which sound much, much better than the old ones,
     thanks to the "Nice Keys" sound font.

  2. Resize the window to properly include the "level" menu on OS X

  3. Previously SourceForge and some other virus scanners were reporting malware
     detected in 0.5.1, I believe in the Windows executable. I don't know if it
     was a false positive, but we are now just distributing a .jar file. If Java
     is properly installed, you should be able to just run the .jar file
     directly, either by double-clicking or by running from the command line
     (java -jar InPitch-0.5.3.jar).


Requirements
------------

To get started, you will need a recent version of Java on your system. If you
don't already have Java installed, or don't know, download it from Oracle at
https://www.java.com/en/download/

Installation
------------

1. Download the file InPitch-0.5.3.jar

2. Make sure Java is installed

3. Double-click the file InPitch-0.5.3.jar. If Java is set up correctly, InPitch
should launch.


Instruction for Use
-------------------

The program once up and running should be straightforward to use. Click "Play"
to have the program play one of the currently selected notes, and then identify
which one you think it is by clicking the corresponding button (C#, A,
etc.). After you demonstrate proficiency with the first two notes, the program
will add a third; and after you demonstrate proficiency in identifying those
three, it will add a fourth; etc. While initially it may be easy to get by using
only relative pitch, this will get difficult as more notes are added. The idea
is not to try to identify the notes using relative pitch; rather, try to listen
closely (but in a relaxed manner) to the character of each individual note and
use that to identify it.

You can change which notes are being used by selecting the level from the
drop-down menu if you want to skip ahead or you feel the program is advancing
too slowly. You can also change the order in which notes are presented by using
the "Note Order" menu at the top. (At present there are only three different
orderings).

There are a number of different instruments available to choose from under the
"Sound"->"Midi" menu, many of which are rather interesting. We have recently
(Dec 2016) upgraded the sound quality, so they should sound very nice.

This program will likely not be the only thing you need to develop an ability to
recognize notes.  However we hope you wil find it to be a useful tool for
practice. If you have any problems, questions, comments or bug reports, you can
contact the authors at:

cngilbreth@gmail.com and hgparra@gmail.com

Or visit our forums at:

http://sf.net/projects/inpitch


